README.md, before:

# PANDA GYM INTEGRATION
This package connects [panda_gym](https://github.com/qgallouedec/panda-gym) with the real robot (Panda Franka Emika) through ROS



## Table of Contents
* [Getting started](#getting-started)
  * [Dependencies and building](#Dependencies-and-building*)
* [Files](#files)
    * [panda_gym_run](#panda_gym_run)
    * [ai_controller](#ai_controller)
    * [panda_path](#panda_path)
    * [other](#other)
* [VSCode](#vscode)
* [Author](#author)
* [License](#license)



---
## Getting started
This package was tested with real robot with:
- Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa
- ROS noetic
- [libfranka](https://github.com/frankaemika/libfranka) 0.8.0
- [franka_ros](https://github.com/frankaemika/franka_ros) 0.7.1
- [panda_moveit_config](https://github.com/ros-planning/panda_moveit_config) 0.7.5
- [panda_controller](https://github.com/Envq/panda_controller) noetic_dev
- [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx) master on **cc81e52045be280ee2f6b928e954d05ccc7798ad**



## Dependencies and building
Follow **Dependencies and building** section [here](https://github.com/Envq/panda_controller) 

Install [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx)


**Get panda_gym_integration:**
~~~
cd ~/panda_ws/src/

pip3 install --user numpy panda_gym torch

git clone https://github.com/Envq/panda_gym_integration.git

cd ~/panda_ws

catkin build
~~~



---
## **Files:**

### **panda_gym_run**
- This file allows you to run panda_gym and test your policy defined in src / panda_actors.py

- Parameters available:
    DEBUG_ENV_ENABLED: enable panda_gym environment debug prints
    DEBUG_AI_ENABLED: enable ai actor debug prints
    NUM_EPISODES: number of episodes to run
    LEN_EPISODE: maximum number of steps per episode
    WRITE_ENABLE: if true, it asks you whether to save the path generated by the episode performed
    FILE_NAME: specify here the name of the file containing the path to be saved
    ACTOR: specify here your actor


### **ai_controller**
- This file allows you to use your AI to control the real robot with [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx)

- Parameters available:
    IP: specify here the ip of the robot
    DEBUG_ENV_ENABLED: enable panda_gym environment debug prints
    DEBUG_AI_ENABLED: enable ai actor debug prints
    NUM_EPISODES: number of episodes to run
    LEN_EPISODE: maximum number of steps per episode
    DYNAMIC_REL: if this value is 0.08, it set velocity, acceleration and jerk to 8% of the maximum
    ACTOR: specify here your actor
    START_POSE: this is a list of start pose for your episodes. Note: the AI used requires that the start pose is always the same
    OBJ_POSE: this is a list of object pose for your episodes
    GOAL_POSE: this is a list of goal pose for your episodes


### **panda_path**
- panda_path_frankx (or panda_path_moveit) is a file that generates a trajectory with the path contained in the specified file and executes it with [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx) (or [moveit](https://moveit.ros.org/))

- Parameters available for **panda_path_frankx**:
    IP: specify here the ip of the robot
    DYNAMIC_REL: if this value is 0.08, it set velocity, acceleration and jerk to 8% of the maximum
    FILE_NAME: is the name of the file in data/paths where read the path
    TIME_DELAY: is the delay after which to add new waypoints in "async" mode

    execute:
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py planning   to generate the trajectory offline
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py linear     to move to each point at runtime with linear movements
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py planning   to generate the trajectory online receiving waypoints with a TIME_DELAY delay


- Parameters available for **panda_path_moveit** in launch/panda_path.launch** (Note: execute this file with roslaunch panda_gym_integration panda_path.launch):
    - arm_speed: is speed used for setMaxVelocityScalingFactor() method of Moveit
    - gripper_speed: is the speed used for the move() method of the gripper
    - gripper_speed, grasp_speed, grasp_force, grasp_epsilon_inner, grasp_epsilon_outer: are the values used in grasp() method of the gripper

    - eef_step, jump_threashould: are the values used in compute_cartesian_path() method of Moveit

    - real_robot: if true, panda_controller will use franka_gripper's action clients
    - file_name: is the name of the file in data/paths where read the path

    - mode = 1: the generation of the trajectories is done with the compute_cartesian_path() method of Moveit
    - mode = 2: each point is read and immediately executed with moveArmPoseTCP() method of panda_controller
    - mode2_delay, mode2_delay: If mode is 2, each point is execute with mode2_delay and with go(wait=mode2_wait) in Moveit


### **other**
  - **debug_frankx**: use python3 debug_frankx.py cmd_name, where **cmd_name** is the command name you want to test with frankx
  - **src/panda_actors**: this files containes the policies and AI, used in **panda_gym_run** and **ai_controller**
  - **ai/**: this folder contains the necessary files for the AI taken [here] (https://github.com/LM095/Multi-Subtask-DRL-for-Pick-and-Place-Task)



---
## VSCode
I used these extensions:
- **c/c++** by microsoft
- **c++ intellisense** by austin
- **cmake** by twxs
- **doxygen** by christoph schlosser
- **clang-format** by xaver
- **doxgen documentation** by christoph schlosser
- **python** by microsoft
- **git graph** by mhutchie
- **gruvbox mirror** by adamsome
- **vscode-icons** by icons for visual studio code
- **git graph** by mhutchie



---
## Author
**Enrico Sgarbanti** [@**Envq**](https://github.com/Envq) for panda-gym integration with real robot

**Luca Marzari** [@**LM095**](https://github.com/LM095) for AI. look [here](https://github.com/LM095/Multi-Subtask-DRL-for-Pick-and-Place-Task) for more details



## License
This project is licensed under the GPL v3 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

add panda_gym_run gif

README.md, after:

# PANDA GYM INTEGRATION
This package connects [panda_gym](https://github.com/qgallouedec/panda-gym) with the real robot (Panda Franka Emika) through ROS



## Table of Contents
* [Getting started](#getting-started)
  * [Dependencies and building](#Dependencies-and-building*)
* [Files](#files)
    * [panda_gym_run](#panda_gym_run)
    * [ai_controller](#ai_controller)
    * [panda_path](#panda_path)
    * [other](#other)
* [VSCode](#vscode)
* [Author](#author)
* [License](#license)



---
## Getting started
This package was tested with real robot with:
- Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa
- ROS noetic
- [libfranka](https://github.com/frankaemika/libfranka) 0.8.0
- [franka_ros](https://github.com/frankaemika/franka_ros) 0.7.1
- [panda_moveit_config](https://github.com/ros-planning/panda_moveit_config) 0.7.5
- [panda_controller](https://github.com/Envq/panda_controller) noetic_dev
- [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx) master on **cc81e52045be280ee2f6b928e954d05ccc7798ad**



## Dependencies and building
Follow **Dependencies and building** section [here](https://github.com/Envq/panda_controller) 

Install [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx)

**panda_gym**
The AI has been trained with the goal closest to the default one.. Go to panda_gym/envs/assets/pickandplace.json and set the object -> body -> basePosition to [0.025, 0.025, 0.4] for better results.


**Get panda_gym_integration:**
~~~
cd ~/panda_ws/src/

pip3 install --user numpy panda_gym torch

git clone https://github.com/Envq/panda_gym_integration.git

cd ~/panda_ws

catkin build
~~~



---
## **Files:**

### **panda_gym_run**
- This file allows you to run panda_gym and test your policy defined in src / panda_actors.py

- Parameters available:
    DEBUG_ENV_ENABLED: enable panda_gym environment debug prints
    DEBUG_AI_ENABLED: enable ai actor debug prints
    NUM_EPISODES: number of episodes to run
    LEN_EPISODE: maximum number of steps per episode
    WRITE_ENABLE: if true, it asks you whether to save the path generated by the episode performed
    FILE_NAME: specify here the name of the file containing the path to be saved
    ACTOR: specify here your actor

![gif_demo](docs/panda_gym_run.gif)


### **ai_controller**
- This file allows you to use your AI to control the real robot with [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx)

- Parameters available:
    IP: specify here the ip of the robot
    DEBUG_ENV_ENABLED: enable panda_gym environment debug prints
    DEBUG_AI_ENABLED: enable ai actor debug prints
    NUM_EPISODES: number of episodes to run
    LEN_EPISODE: maximum number of steps per episode
    DYNAMIC_REL: if this value is 0.08, it set velocity, acceleration and jerk to 8% of the maximum
    ACTOR: specify here your actor
    START_POSE: this is a list of start pose for your episodes. Note: the AI used requires that the start pose is always the same
    OBJ_POSE: this is a list of object pose for your episodes
    GOAL_POSE: this is a list of goal pose for your episodes


### **panda_path**
- panda_path_frankx (or panda_path_moveit) is a file that generates a trajectory with the path contained in the specified file and executes it with [frankx](https://github.com/pantor/frankx) (or [moveit](https://moveit.ros.org/))

- Parameters available for **panda_path_frankx**:
    IP: specify here the ip of the robot
    DYNAMIC_REL: if this value is 0.08, it set velocity, acceleration and jerk to 8% of the maximum
    FILE_NAME: is the name of the file in data/paths where read the path
    TIME_DELAY: is the delay after which to add new waypoints in "async" mode

    execute:
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py planning   to generate the trajectory offline
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py linear     to move to each point at runtime with linear movements
    - python3 panda_path_frankx.py planning   to generate the trajectory online receiving waypoints with a TIME_DELAY delay


- Parameters available for **panda_path_moveit** in launch/panda_path.launch** (Note: execute this file with roslaunch panda_gym_integration panda_path.launch):
    - arm_speed: is speed used for setMaxVelocityScalingFactor() method of Moveit
    - gripper_speed: is the speed used for the move() method of the gripper
    - gripper_speed, grasp_speed, grasp_force, grasp_epsilon_inner, grasp_epsilon_outer: are the values used in grasp() method of the gripper

    - eef_step, jump_threashould: are the values used in compute_cartesian_path() method of Moveit

    - real_robot: if true, panda_controller will use franka_gripper's action clients
    - file_name: is the name of the file in data/paths where read the path

    - mode = 1: the generation of the trajectories is done with the compute_cartesian_path() method of Moveit
    - mode = 2: each point is read and immediately executed with moveArmPoseTCP() method of panda_controller
    - mode2_delay, mode2_delay: If mode is 2, each point is execute with mode2_delay and with go(wait=mode2_wait) in Moveit


### **other**
  - **debug_frankx**: use python3 debug_frankx.py cmd_name, where **cmd_name** is the command name you want to test with frankx
  - **src/panda_actors**: this files containes the policies and AI, used in **panda_gym_run** and **ai_controller**
  - **ai/**: this folder contains the necessary files for the AI taken [here] (https://github.com/LM095/Multi-Subtask-DRL-for-Pick-and-Place-Task)



---
## VSCode
I used these extensions:
- **c/c++** by microsoft
- **c++ intellisense** by austin
- **cmake** by twxs
- **doxygen** by christoph schlosser
- **clang-format** by xaver
- **doxgen documentation** by christoph schlosser
- **python** by microsoft
- **git graph** by mhutchie
- **gruvbox mirror** by adamsome
- **vscode-icons** by icons for visual studio code
- **git graph** by mhutchie



---
## Author
**Enrico Sgarbanti** [@**Envq**](https://github.com/Envq) for panda-gym integration with real robot

**Luca Marzari** [@**LM095**](https://github.com/LM095) for AI. look [here](https://github.com/LM095/Multi-Subtask-DRL-for-Pick-and-Place-Task) for more details



## License
This project is licensed under the GPL v3 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
